Dying every moment
==================

I'll begin with a thought experiment of precise cloning an individual. This is no a new idea by any means. In Stanisław Lem's "Dialogs on the Atomic Resurrection" essay such process is considered as a way to achieve immortality.

Basically, the constitution of your body is scanned and saved, so in case of a fatal incident you can be rebuilt from this backup data. The question is if the restored person is in fact "you"? Well, probably no, even assuming perfect copy including all quantum states preserved - which is not possible. The rebuilt person is a new person, who has all of your memories from the moment of scanning. The main argument for it is that in case of rebuilding process being conducted while "original you" is still alive you won't notice anything special. No "forking of perception", no "having four hands", no "transfer of point of view", no anything like that. You may not even know your copy has been built - the data may be stolen and used by some perverted person to make himself a slave who is beautiful, smart and educated just like the original you. So why should anything different happen if you are dead before the rebuilding process is being conducted?

But how does the process looks like from the perspective of "rebuilt you"? Again - it's nothing special. Maybe except experiencing a subtle glitch which I'll explain later. The "rebuilt you" is a fully featured human being, no worse than the original, because copying was perfect. The "rebuilt you" has memories, achievements, personality, even friends (if they know and won't mind...). If scanning and rebuilding process is instant then you and your copy are indistinguishable. The only difference is subjective - a point of view, aka. consciousness. You are looking through your eyes and your copy through your copy's eyes. Both of you are convinced that the other one is a copy. Or both of you are convinced that the other one is an original - it depends on your ways of thinking, which are the same for both copies until the environment affects them in a different way.

Imagine. You come to "Atomic Resurrection inc." clinic to make yourself a savepoint. You and your relatives are aware of all the gotchas, risks and moral dilemmas but still, decide that this is a right thing to do. All formal papers are already signed. After strict preparations, you finally lie down on the scanner table. You watch complicated looking apparatus bending over you and wonder what for are those pieces of ceramic-looking material painted in red-blue stripes. Then comes the glitch. Lighting of the room changes and there is no more reb-blue stripes on the machinery over you. Just face of your beloved significant other. "What happened?" you ask but immediately after you realize what happened. You were restored from a save point. "There was a bomb in the commuter train..." SO answers your question, thinking it was about what happened to the other "you".

In the above example subject for the store-restore operation was aware of the operation because it was explicit. It was done on her request, it wasn't disguised, scanner room was different than rebuild room (which resulted in a glitch/teleport feeling), other people didn't hide the truth. However, the process can be disguised. During a flight from the Tymnar Kingdom to Mewaklandia many passengers fall asleep, as the journey takes ten hours at best. The mewaklandian economy based on coal mining takes a great benefit from this fact. Passengers are copied while they sleep. Originals get anesthetized and hidden in cargo bay while copies are seated in the cabin. After arrival originals are sent to mines, where they work until death and copies are left alone to live their lives. Nobody has noticed anything (except abducted originals).

Alternatively, one can dispose of originals and leave copies taking their place. Nobody will notice, even the originals if their end is fast enough or executed while they are unconscious. So is there any difference between copying + killing and doing nothing? And how can one be sure that he is not being replaced every time he falls asleep? It seems, there is no way of knowing that.

Taking one step further we can skip all the nasty mechanical details of building and destroying human bodies. If you can't tell continuity of your consciousness maybe every time you fall asleep you disappear, and every time your body wakes up a new you emerge? Having memories from previous life makes you think that you lived for many years now, when in fact you can be a brand new being. Or maybe the process happens every time? This means you literally die every moment. And nobody notices, because "new you" have the feeling of continuity, and "old you" just doesn't exist anymore.
