No internet day
===============

Ever wondered what would happen if the internet was suddenly turned off? I did quite a bit and still have no idea. Would it be just a minor inconvenience because you cannot watch Netflix or is it total disaster drowning the world in anarchy and setting us back in dark ages?

And how about electricity? Effects of a blackout lasting few days are even more catastrophic than a few days without internet. Yes - total blackout is rather improbable because electricity supply is distributed. There are many powerplants and you can make electricity yourself from gasoline, the wind blowing over the roof of your house or even from mechanical power of your body (produced from that corn you eat every day - [Krebs cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citric_acid_cycle) is awesome). That's quite easy opposed to making "an internet" by yourself.

Ok, to some degree the internet is distributed too. Usually, there are many routes between two given points, so single failure won't be that bad (bro, I'm not a telecommunications expert). No single being (human, corporation or country) can turn the internet off. It can chop off its part of the internet, and that's all, and that's great. But hold on - there exist totally centralized things on which you depend as much as on electricity. Take a look at Microsoft operating systems. They are not standalone products - they are services. It doesn't matter if you pay a one-time or a recurring fee. Microsoft systems remain under control of Microsft corporation as long as they can communicate with "headquarters" (over the internet presumably). When MS update keys get compromised or when MS has a will to hit hard selected part of its systems running on customers' machines, then the hell breaks loose. In theory MS (or the bad guy who's stolen update keys) has the power to shut down, let's say, all Windows machines in Poland. The only thing stopping it from doing so is total profit and loss. How much havoc will be caused when all Windows machines die and possibly take all persistent storage data with them?

MS is just an example. There is Facebook, there is Google, there are many other software/services suppliers that have addicted their customers to themselves. Don't get me wrong - I got nothing against such "addiction". Having tested supplier is great. Specialization is an integral part of humanity. We are herd animals, we cooperate, I grow corn, you are blacksmith, I need you, you need me. But when I'm the only food supplier in your environment - that's bad. So, we have to constantly be aware of the possibility that some services get suddenly missing. Are we prepared of MS systems disappearing? Are we prepared of getting "This site can’t be reached" when requesting `mail.google.com`? Are we prepared for all AWS machines disappearing? Are we prepared?

It seems that the problem affects only services. Products are fine because once you get them they work until they naturally break. They are not under control of their manufacturer once they leave the factory. And by that, they are immune to sabotage, natural disasters and dynamic, targeted bad will happening at manufacturers site They are perfectly distributed. If all interactions between beings (humans, corporations, countries) will to be products it would be great. But we have services. And I don't mean services by "getting hamburger served at the restaurant" or "getting a haircut at hairdresser" - they are products, just unmaterial. I mean services by "you get fresh bread at your door every day at 6 am" (food catering?) or "I will keep up to 5m^3 of your stuff at my place" (storage space renting?). So, it seems, we are after "recurring services". I feel there is a special word for it, I just don't know it.

I'm thinking that rather addressing the specific risks in specific areas there is possibility of somewhat a cover-all solution. This is to forbid services that are always available. For example this "no internet day" is a vision of turning of the internet for example for a single day in a month. This way we can see what breaks if there is no internet. This reminds me of an approach to running IT infrastructure called chaos-ops or something. Basically you intentionaly introduce downtimes for separate modules of a system. This way everybody instead of thinking "yea, this would never break" thinks "what will be the consequences if it breaks, because someday it will break"

What could be this cover-all solution? I'm thinking about a (fictional) legislation that requires all businesses to shut down its operation for a moment. But what does it mean "to shut down operation"? Maybe it means that a company cannot hire anybody on that day (humans or other companies)? But this would lead to companies creating two child-companies and passing the means of production (lets say the AWS server farm) between them to have it operational nonstop. Do we have any better solution?

**More to come**
